readme.md, before:

# Haxe React

[![TravisCI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/massiveinteractive/haxe-react.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/massiveinteractive/haxe-react)
[![Haxelib Version](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/massiveinteractive/haxe-react.svg?label=haxelib)](http://lib.haxe.org/p/react)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/haxe-react](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitter-join%20chat-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitter.im/haxe-react/Lobby)

A Haxe library offering externs and tool functions leveraging Haxe's excellent type system and
compile time macros to offer a strongly typed language to work with the increasingly popular
[React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) library.

	haxelib install react

### What's included / not included

This library covers React core and ReactDOM.
It does NOT cover: ReactAddOns, react-router or React Native.

We recommend looking into / contributing to the following efforts:

- https://github.com/haxe-react (React native and others libs)
- https://github.com/tokomlabs/haxe-react-addons (various externs to pick)


### Application architecture examples

React doesn't enforce any specific application architecture; here are a few approaches:

**Redux**, a very popular new approach of Model-View-Intent architecture: global state object,
following immutability principles, but the wiring has been re-imagined to use the best of Haxe:

- https://github.com/elsassph/haxe-react-redux

**MMVC**, classic, battle tested, Model-View-Mediator with state of the art Dependency Injection:

- https://github.com/elsassph/haxe-react-mmvc

**Flux**, inspired by Facebook's suggested architecture for React; this is a very quick PoC
which probably won't scale well to complex apps, but it shows a good range of React features:

- https://github.com/massiveinteractive/haxe-react/tree/master/samples/todoapp


### Support / discussions

If you have questions / issues, join [haxe-react on Gitter.im](https://gitter.im/haxe-react/Lobby)


## API

Most of the regular React API is integrated (non-JSX example):

```haxe
import react.React;
import react.ReactDOM;

class App extends ReactComponent {

	static public function main() {
		ReactDOM.render(React.createElement(App), Browser.document.getElementById('app'));
	}

	public function new() {
		super();
	}

	override function render() {
		var cname = 'foo';
		return React.createElement('div', {className:cname}, [/*children*/]);
	}
}
```

Note that `React.createElement` strictly expects either a `String`, a `Function`, or a class
extending `ReactComponent`. It includes when writing externs for 3rd party JS libraries you
must specify `extends`:

```haxe
@:jsRequire('react-redux', 'Provider')
extern class Provider extends react.ReactComponent { }
```

## JSX

This library uses a compile-time macro to parse JSX and generate
the same kind of code that Facebook's JSX, Babel and Typescript will.

Both classic JSX `{}` binding and Haxe string interpolation `$var` / `${expression}` / `<$Comp>`
are allowed. The advantage of string interpolation is Haxe editor supports for completion and
code navigation.

Spread operator and complex expressions within curly braces are supported.

The `jsx` macro can be called either with a String literal, or with an XML literal.
The result is absolutely identical so choose what you prefer:

```haxe
import react.ReactMacro.jsx;
...
override function render() {
	var cname = 'foo';
	return jsx('
		<div className=$cname>
			<MyComponent style=${{margin:"10px"}}/>
			${/*children*/}
		</div>
	');
}
```
```haxe
import react.ReactMacro.jsx;
...
override function render() {
	var cname = 'foo';
	return jsx(
		<div className=$cname>
			<MyComponent style=${{margin:"10px"}}/>
			${/*children*/}
		</div>
	);
}
```

### JSX Fragments

[Fragments](https://reactjs.org/docs/fragments.html) (React 16.2+) let you group
a list of children without adding extra nodes to the DOM.

Two syntaxes are supported:
```javascript
<Fragment>
    Text
    <span>more text</span>
    Still more text
</Fragment>

// or short syntax:
<>
    Text
    <span>more text</span>
    Still more text
</>
```

### JSX gotchas

1. JSX is not String magic! **Do not concatenate Strings** to construct the JSX expression

2. Haxe's JSX parser is not "re-entrant"

	In JavaScript you can nest JSX inside curly-brace expressions:
	```javascript
	return (
	    <div>{ isA ? <A/> : <B/> }</div>
	);
	```

	However this isn't allowed in Haxe, so you must extract nested JSX into variables:
	```haxe
	var content = isA ? jsx(<A/>) : jsx(<B/>);
	return jsx(<div>{content}</div>);
	```

## Components strict typing

The default `ReactComponent` type is a shorthand for `ReactComponentOf<Dynamic, Dynamic>`,
a fully untyped component.

To fully benefit from Haxe's strict typing you should look into extending a stricter base class:

```haxe
typedef ReactComponentOfProps<TProps> = ReactComponentOf<TProps, Empty>;
typedef ReactComponentOfState<TState> = ReactComponentOf<Empty, TState>;
typedef ReactComponentOfPropsAndState<TProps, TState> = ReactComponentOf<TProps, TState>;
```

The `Empty` type is an alias to `{}`, which means:
- `ReactComponentOfProps` can NOT use any state,
- `ReactComponentOfState` can NOT use any props.

To re-open to `Dynamic` you need to use `ReactComponentOf`.

## React JS dependency

There are 2 ways to link the React JS library:

### Require method (default)

By default the library uses `require('react')` to reference React JS.

This means you are expected to use `npm` to install this dependency:

	npm install react

and a second build step to generate the final JS file, for instance using `browserify`:

	npm install browserify
	browserify haxe-output.js -o final-output.js

(note that you can use `watchify` to automatically run this build step)

### Global JS

The other common method is to download or reference the CDN files of React JS in your HTML page:

```html
<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/react/16.2.0/umd/react.development.js"></script>
<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/react-dom/16.2.0/umd/react-dom.development.js"></script>
```

and don't forget to add the following Haxe define to your build command:

	-D react_global

Look at `samples/todoapp` for an example of this approach.


## JSX Optimizing Compiler

### Inline ReactElements

By default, when building for release (eg. without `-debug`), calls to `React.createElement` are replaced by inline JS objects (if possible).

See: https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/3228

```javascript
// regular
return React.createElement('div', {key:'bar', className:'foo'});

// inlined (simplified)
return {$$typeof:Symbol.for('react.element'), type:'div', props:{className:'foo'}, key:'bar'}
```

This behaviour can be **disabled** using `-D react_no_inline`.

## Optimization tools

### Avoidable renders warning

Setting `-D react_runtime_warnings` will enable runtime warnings for avoidable renders.

This will add a `componentDidUpdate` (or update the existing one) where a **shallowCompare** is done on current and previous props and state. If both did not change, a warning will be displayed in the console.

False positives can happen if your props are not flat, due to the shallowCompare.

Commit message:

- Adding `react_ver` to control feature flags - React 16.9 unsafe lifecycle methods

readme.md, after:

# Haxe React

[![TravisCI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/massiveinteractive/haxe-react.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/massiveinteractive/haxe-react)
[![Haxelib Version](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/massiveinteractive/haxe-react.svg?label=haxelib)](http://lib.haxe.org/p/react)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/haxe-react](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitter-join%20chat-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitter.im/haxe-react/Lobby)

A Haxe library offering externs and tool functions leveraging Haxe's excellent type system and
compile time macros to offer a strongly typed language to work with the increasingly popular
[React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) library.

	haxelib install react

### What's included / not included

This library covers React core and ReactDOM.
It does NOT cover: ReactAddOns, react-router or React Native.

We recommend looking into / contributing to the following efforts:

- https://github.com/haxe-react (React native and others libs)
- https://github.com/tokomlabs/haxe-react-addons (various externs to pick)


### Application architecture examples

React doesn't enforce any specific application architecture; here are a few approaches:

**Redux**, a very popular new approach of Model-View-Intent architecture: global state object,
following immutability principles, but the wiring has been re-imagined to use the best of Haxe:

- https://github.com/elsassph/haxe-react-redux

**MMVC**, classic, battle tested, Model-View-Mediator with state of the art Dependency Injection:

- https://github.com/elsassph/haxe-react-mmvc

**Flux**, inspired by Facebook's suggested architecture for React; this is a very quick PoC
which probably won't scale well to complex apps, but it shows a good range of React features:

- https://github.com/massiveinteractive/haxe-react/tree/master/samples/todoapp


### Support / discussions

If you have questions / issues, join [haxe-react on Gitter.im](https://gitter.im/haxe-react/Lobby)


## API

Most of the regular React API is integrated (non-JSX example):

```haxe
import react.React;
import react.ReactDOM;

class App extends ReactComponent {

	static public function main() {
		ReactDOM.render(React.createElement(App), Browser.document.getElementById('app'));
	}

	public function new() {
		super();
	}

	override function render() {
		var cname = 'foo';
		return React.createElement('div', {className:cname}, [/*children*/]);
	}
}
```

Note that `React.createElement` strictly expects either a `String`, a `Function`, or a class
extending `ReactComponent`. It includes when writing externs for 3rd party JS libraries you
must specify `extends`:

```haxe
@:jsRequire('react-redux', 'Provider')
extern class Provider extends react.ReactComponent { }
```

## JSX

This library uses a compile-time macro to parse JSX and generate
the same kind of code that Facebook's JSX, Babel and Typescript will.

Both classic JSX `{}` binding and Haxe string interpolation `$var` / `${expression}` / `<$Comp>`
are allowed. The advantage of string interpolation is Haxe editor supports for completion and
code navigation.

Spread operator and complex expressions within curly braces are supported.

The `jsx` macro can be called either with a String literal, or with an XML literal.
The result is absolutely identical so choose what you prefer:

```haxe
import react.ReactMacro.jsx;
...
override function render() {
	var cname = 'foo';
	return jsx('
		<div className=$cname>
			<MyComponent style=${{margin:"10px"}}/>
			${/*children*/}
		</div>
	');
}
```
```haxe
import react.ReactMacro.jsx;
...
override function render() {
	var cname = 'foo';
	return jsx(
		<div className=$cname>
			<MyComponent style=${{margin:"10px"}}/>
			${/*children*/}
		</div>
	);
}
```

### JSX Fragments

[Fragments](https://reactjs.org/docs/fragments.html) (React 16.2+) let you group
a list of children without adding extra nodes to the DOM.

Two syntaxes are supported:
```javascript
<Fragment>
    Text
    <span>more text</span>
    Still more text
</Fragment>

// or short syntax:
<>
    Text
    <span>more text</span>
    Still more text
</>
```

### JSX gotchas

1. JSX is not String magic! **Do not concatenate Strings** to construct the JSX expression

2. Haxe's JSX parser is not "re-entrant"

	In JavaScript you can nest JSX inside curly-brace expressions:
	```javascript
	return (
	    <div>{ isA ? <A/> : <B/> }</div>
	);
	```

	However this isn't allowed in Haxe, so you must extract nested JSX into variables:
	```haxe
	var content = isA ? jsx(<A/>) : jsx(<B/>);
	return jsx(<div>{content}</div>);
	```

## Feature flags

To control React features that should be enabled, depending on your target React version,
use `-D react_ver=<version>`, like `-D react_ver=16.3` if you want to restrict to `16.3`.

Otherwise all the features will be turned on:

- `react_fragments`: e.g `<Fragment>`, since React 16.2
- `react_snapshot_api`: e.g. `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate`, since React 16.3
- `react_unsafe_lifecycle`: e.g. `UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, since React 16.9

## Components strict typing

The default `ReactComponent` type is a shorthand for `ReactComponentOf<Dynamic, Dynamic>`,
a fully untyped component.

To fully benefit from Haxe's strict typing you should look into extending a stricter base class:

```haxe
typedef ReactComponentOfProps<TProps> = ReactComponentOf<TProps, Empty>;
typedef ReactComponentOfState<TState> = ReactComponentOf<Empty, TState>;
typedef ReactComponentOfPropsAndState<TProps, TState> = ReactComponentOf<TProps, TState>;
```

The `Empty` type is an alias to `{}`, which means:
- `ReactComponentOfProps` can NOT use any state,
- `ReactComponentOfState` can NOT use any props.

To re-open to `Dynamic` you need to use `ReactComponentOf`.

## React JS dependency

There are 2 ways to link the React JS library:

### Require method (default)

By default the library uses `require('react')` to reference React JS.

This means you are expected to use `npm` to install this dependency:

	npm install react

and a second build step to generate the final JS file, for instance using `browserify`:

	npm install browserify
	browserify haxe-output.js -o final-output.js

(note that you can use `watchify` to automatically run this build step)

### Global JS

The other common method is to download or reference the CDN files of React JS in your HTML page:

```html
<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/react/16.2.0/umd/react.development.js"></script>
<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/react-dom/16.2.0/umd/react-dom.development.js"></script>
```

and don't forget to add the following Haxe define to your build command:

	-D react_global

Look at `samples/todoapp` for an example of this approach.


## JSX Optimizing Compiler

### Inline ReactElements

By default, when building for release (eg. without `-debug`), calls to `React.createElement` are replaced by inline JS objects (if possible).

See: https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/3228

```javascript
// regular
return React.createElement('div', {key:'bar', className:'foo'});

// inlined (simplified)
return {$$typeof:Symbol.for('react.element'), type:'div', props:{className:'foo'}, key:'bar'}
```

This behaviour can be **disabled** using `-D react_no_inline`.

## Optimization tools

### Avoidable renders warning

Setting `-D react_runtime_warnings` will enable runtime warnings for avoidable renders.

This will add a `componentDidUpdate` (or update the existing one) where a **shallowCompare** is done on current and previous props and state. If both did not change, a warning will be displayed in the console.

False positives can happen if your props are not flat, due to the shallowCompare.
